I. Introduction

Prioritas is an organizational website that enables users to keep track of to-dos and categorize these tasks to be completed in a 
priority matrix according to the task’s level of importance and urgency. The website offers a Pomodoro feature in which users are 
able to optimize task completion by dividing work into manageable sessions and breaks of fixed durations.  


II. Executive Summary

The objectives of this project are as follows:
1. Enable students to coordinate and keep track of tasks to be completed in a comprehensible organizational structure
2. Optimize the efficiency with which students complete tasks


III. About Me (Background)

The Prioritas priority matrix is structured as an organizational grid with four sections- important and urgent, important but not 
urgent, urgent but not important, and not urgent and not important. Users can input personal to-dos in each section according to the 
task’s importance and urgency.  

The Prioritas website also includes a Pomodoro feature in which users can chunk work into timed work sessions. Each Pomodoro is a 
25-minute work session. For efficiency, we made each Pomodoro 10 seconds instead of 25 minutes for demonstration purposes so that it 
would be easier for graders and CS50 fair participants to more quickly see how the feature works. 

If a user is attempting to complete a task on the list, the user can enter the amount of Pomodoros (s)he estimates the entire task 
will require to complete.


IV. Distribution

In order to access the website and relevant pages, please follow the steps outlined below.
    Execute:    
        Login to CS50 IDE
        In a terminal window, execute:
	    cd ~/workspace/projectv2/
        flask run
    Select CS50 IDE > Web Server to view the project.

(Optional) To see changes to MySQL where data is saved, please follow the steps outlined below in a separate terminal window:
    Execute:    
        cd ~/workspace/projectv2/
        phpliteadmin projectv2.db
    Click on the link provided by the output. 


V. Register

In order to use Prioritas, please register a valid email as a username with an 8-character password. Re-enter your password to 
ensure you typed the correct password. 

The form will validate the field inputs as you move along and will not allow you to submit until each field is correctly filled. 
Although the website checks if an email is valid by checking if the input contains an “@” sign, please ensure you enter a valid 
email address, as an email will be sent with a temporary password to this address if you forget your password.
If your registration is successful, the website will redirect you to a success page that contains a link for login. Follow the link 
to register with your new account information. 


If your registration is unsuccessful because your email has already been registered, the website will let you know the email is 
already taken and include a link to register with a different email address. If you forgot your password for this account, you can 
click on the “Forgot Password?” link included on the page to get a new password.


VI. Login/Forgot Password

Once you have registered with Prioritas, please login with your information to begin using the website. If your email is  not 
registered or your password is incorrect, you will be alerted and prompted to try to sign in again.

If you forgot your password, you can click on the link for “Forgot Password?” which will redirect you to a page in which you can 
submit your email address for a temporary password. If successful, you will be redirected to a success page that will contain a 
link to the login page. The new password should be sent to your account in a few minutes if your email is on file. If the password 
is not sent, you can try again by clicking the “Try Again” link or click on the “Contact Us” link provided to email us for 
tech support.

If the password reset is unsuccessful, you will be redirected to a failure page. If your email is not registered, you can click on 
the link contained on the page to register this email.


VII. Change Password

Once you have logged in, you have the ability to change your password. If you want to change your password, you can click on the 
tab labeled “Change Password” at the top right corner. You will be prompted to enter your old password and new password. Like 
Register, the form will validate the values you input as you go along. 


VIII. Priority Matrix

When you login, you will immediately be directed your account’s priority matrix. You can input your to-dos for each section by 
clicking on the field box containing the placeholder “Enter To-Do…” and pressing enter. You can subsequently remove to-dos from the 
list, such as when you complete the task, by clicking on the “x” icon. All changes are automatically saved to MySQL. 


IX. Pomodoros

You can activate the Pomodoro feature for a task by clicking on the task on wish you choose to work. When you click on the task, a 
pop-up window modul will appear containing a timer set to 10 seconds (instead of the usual 25 for demonstration convenience). There 
will also be an input box at the bottom of the pop-up in which you can input the number of Pomodoros you feel is appropriate for the 
task at hand and press enter. Then press “Start” to begin the Pomodoro, but press “Stop” if you wish to stop the timer and “Reset” 
if you wish to reset the timer.  Upon completion of the timer, a pleasant alarm will sound and the number of Pomodoros remaining for 
the task will decrease automatically.

Note: If you are experiencing issues with multiple overlapping time displays, please refresh the page.



X. Project Details
 
Please see the Design Report for technical details. If any other issues arise, please contact us at prioritas.CS50@gmail.com. 